{\rtf0\nextcset {\fonttbl{\f20\froman Times-Roman;}{\f3\fswiss 
Helvetica;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840 \margl1800\margr1800\margt0\margb0 
\pgnstart1\ftnstart1 \deftab31680 \sectd\sbknone \linemod0\linex0 
\ftnbj \headery0\footery0 \cols1 {\header \pard \li0\ri0\fi0\qc\sl320 
\plain \f3 \par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
}{\footer \pard \li0\ri0\fi0\qc\sl320 \plain \f3 \par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
}\pard \li0\ri0\fi0\sl320 \tx360 \tx6120 \plain \f20\b 
SpeechManager Help\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab SpeechManager provides the ability to customize the 
execution characteristics of the TextToSpeech server for 
any given system.  Because each system is different 
in its configuration and computing load, it is not possible 
give a general configuration which will be best for 
all systems.  To ensure the best possible configuration 
for your system, it is recommended that the concepts 
outlined under \'aaThe Mach Operating System\'ba in the 
NEXTSTEP Developer Documentation be understood.  \par 
\par 
\tab Under NEXTSTEP 3.0, 3.1, and 3.2 some users reported 
that the speech output \'aacrackled\'ba.  This cracking 
is due to the inability of the TextToSpeech system to 
compute speech quickly enough.  This problem is generally 
found on systems which are integrated into networks, 
systems with a higher than normal computing load, and 
Color Stations.  One of the main purposes for SpeechManager 
is to allow the user to increase the amount of CPU 
time for the Speech server to eliminate interruptions 
in speech output.\par 
\par 
\tab The following is a description of the various customizable 
functions available to the user.  Characteristics set 
using this program are saved in the TextToSpeech Defaults 
Database and are invoked each time the TextToSpeech server 
is executed.\par 
\par 
\b General Guidelines\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab Most systems work well with the default TextToSpeech 
Kit configuration.  However, if \'aacrackling\'ba does 
occur, here are some general guidelines to follow:\par 
\par 
\tab \'b7 The goal is to determine the best configuration 
for the system.  Optimal results are obtained when speech 
output is continuous and a minimal amount of system 
resources are consumed.  Experiment with different configurations 
to see if the results are satisfactory.\par 
\par 
\tab \'b7 If speech output crackles only at the beginning 
of sentences and phrases, consider increasing the \'aaSilence 
Prefill\'ba parameter.\par 
\par 
\tab \'b7 If speech output crackles throughout, start 
by experimenting with a higher Mach Priority and Time 
Quantum.  If the problem persists, consider adopting 
a Fixed Priority scheduling policy.\par 
\par 
\tab \'b7 Remember that values set on the TextToSpeech 
Server panel take effect after the \'aaSet\'ba button 
is clicked.\par 
\par 
\b TextToSpeech Server Information\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab Information about the TTS_Server for this system 
is reported in this box.  The current server version 
and date of last compilation is reported in the first 
field.  The next two fields refer to the main dictionary; 
 the first is the version of the dictionary file /LocalLibrary/TextToSpeech/system/MainDictionary. 
 The second field reports which version of the main 
dictionary your TTS_Server is compiled to run with.  
If these version strings are not identical, contact \i 
Trillium\i0  (at the address on the info panel) and 
describe the problem.  The final field reports the current 
Process ID of the TTS_Server.\par 
\par 
\b Scheduling Policy\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab Scheduling policy of the TTS_Server can be set 
using the radio buttons in the \'aaScheduling Policy\'ba 
box.  The default policy is \b Time Share\b0 .  The 
timesharing policy allows processes to be pre-empted from 
executing so that other processes may execute.  However, 
since the TextToSpeech server is required to run in 
real-time (otherwise speech output will be interrupted) 
some systems may require that the server adopt the \b 
Fixed Priority\b0  policy.  Under fixed priority, the 
server's priority will not degrade to let other processes 
execute.  \b Time Share\b0  policy is recommended as 
it has the least impact on the performance of other 
processes.  For more information about scheduling policies, 
see \'aa4 Mach Functions\'ba in the NeXT Developer Documentation.\par 
\par 
\b Mach Priority\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab Under NEXTSTEP, each process has a priority.  The 
higher the priority, the more likely the program is 
to be executed.  In the \'aaMach Priority\'ba box on 
the TextToSpeech Server panel, the priority of the TextToSpeech 
server can be set.  If speech output is interrupted 
(ie, it crackles) increase the priority and click the 
\'aaSet\'ba button.  NOTE: Setting the priority higher 
will reduce the CPU time available to other programs 
and their performance may be degraded as a result.  
Experiment with different priorities to determine which 
priority is best for your system.\par 
\par 
\tab For more information about system priorities, see 
\'aa1 Mach Concepts\'ba in the NeXT Developer Documentation.\par 
\par 
\b Silence Prefill\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab To produce speech output in real-time, large amounts 
of data are transferred between the main CPU and the 
DSP through DMA.  When speech output begins, it may 
be interrupted if the system DMA buffers have not yet 
stabilized.  It is possible to alleviate this problem 
by injecting silence at the beginning of the speech 
stream so that the DMA buffers will have stabilized 
by the time speech output begins.  Silence is inserted 
in 25 ms units and the default is 1 unit of silence. 
 The user can select 1 to 5 units of silence and 
it is best to experiment to determine what amount of 
silence is best for your system.  NOTE: More silence 
at the beginning of the speech stream will increase 
the latency at which speech output begins.\par 
\b \par 
Time Quantum\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab The amount of CPU time that a process is given 
when it is invoked by the scheduler is called its \b 
Time Quantum\b0 .  The user can set the server's time 
quantum to values between 15 ms and 350 ms.  Adjusting 
this parameter seems to have little effect on most systems 
but does have a beneficial effect on some.  If you 
find that a large time quantum has little effect on 
your system, it is recommended that you keep it set 
to its default value of 15 ms.\par 
\b \par 
Terminate Inactive Speech Server\b0 \par 
\par 
\tab The TextToSpeech Kit was designed to provide seamless 
integration into the NEXTSTEP environment.  By default, 
when the TextToSpeech server determines that it is inactive 
(ie. that it has no connections to executing processes), 
it shuts itself down to minimize its usage of system 
resources.  Whether or not the TextToSpeech server terminates 
upon becoming inactive can be set through the switch 
at the bottom of the panel.  \par 
\par 
\par 
}
