                      Hartman Technica

        Preliminary Comments on Trillium Sound Editor

                      26 October 1993


These comments are in no particular order, and certainly not
priority order.

1. This is an excellent tool for visual signal analysis.

2. In the FFT control panel, it would be helpful if the Analysis
Resolution and Number of windows changed immediately to reflect
a change in window size.

3. In the FFT control panel, it would be useful if the window
slide were defaulted to a constant fraction (initially 50%) of
the window size.

4.  In the FFT control panel the scaling is limited to a maximum
of 20, which is too low: it should limit (and default) to the
highest output value seen. 

5. In the FFT control panel the window slide needs four digits.

6.  Particularly in the light of the extended computation times,
and associated slow user feedback, it is hard to use the zoom
facility to examine closely a given section of the input. Could
faster feedback be arranged, possibly on a placebo basis?

In this regard, it may never be useful to select or examine
different channels on different time scales.

7.  A "Stop Processing" button in the FFT control panel, always
active, would save a lot of time when control errors are made on
a large segment of signal. 

8. It would be pleasant to be able to set a default state for
the FFT controle to suit the task in hand, and have this state
appear at start up.

*9. The ability to scale the frequency axis of the FFT to examine
any small subset of frequencies (e.g 500-1500 Hz at a sample
rate of 44100 Hz) would be very useful.

10.  If a control setting exceeds the display capability of the
program, it would be useful to notify the user immediately, and
not perform the (possibly lengthy) calculations involved to no
avail. 

11. I will provide C code for a more efficient FFT next week:
this may help reduce calculation times.


Rick Jenkins                               Calgary, October 1993
