{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw11580
\paperh8280
\margl0
\margr20
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx2160\tx7920\tx8280\tx9000\tx9720\tx10440\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\li180\fc0\cf0 Setting TextToSpeech User Defaults\

\b0\fs24 \

\b What are TextToSpeech User Defaults?
\b0 \
Whenever an application makes a connection with the TextToSpeech Server, it first checks the user's defaults database to set speech quality parameters, and to set the path to the User Dictionary.  This allows the user to customize the quality of the speech and the pronunciations used by the system.  Note that particular applications may override or ignore your user defaults, although these applications may provide user-specifiable defaults of their own.  The TextToSpeech user defaults are stored on a per account basis, which means that any application started in your account will use your default settings.\
\

\b \
Setting the Defaults using PrEditor\

\b0 Although you can set the defaults directly at the command line, PrEditor lets you do this more conveniently with buttons and sliders.  The controls are in the TextToSpeech Preferences panel, under the Info menu item.  Note that these defaults don't take effect until an application reconnects to the server if it is already connected, or when a new application is started.  When working in PrEditor, this means that only newly created documents will use the new default values;  existing documents will continue to use the old settings.\
\
\
The following defaults can be set:\
\

\i volume
\b\i0 \

\b0 This parameter controls the volume of the synthesized speech.  It is in decibels, with 60 dB the maximum, and 0 dB silence.  This control is independent of the volume and mute buttons on the keyboard.  It is best not to use values less than about 48 dB.\
\

\i stereo balance
\b\i0 \

\b0 Stereo balance is heard only when you have 2 channels of output, and your computer is connected to an external stereo sound system.  The balance ranges from hard left (-1) to hard right (+1).  0 is the center position.\
\

\i number of channels
\i0 \
The number of channels of sound output can be set to 1 or 2 (mono or stereo).  Mono output is effectively the same as stereo output with the balance set to 0 (center position).\
\

\i\fc1\cf1 voice type
\b\i0 \

\b0 Sets the voice type of the synthesized voice to male, female, large child, small child, or baby.  
\fc0\cf0 Each voice type has a different baseline value for the length of the vocal tract and the median pitch of the voice.  These values can be ``offset'' using the ``VTL Offset'' and ``Pitch Offset'' controls.  Note that your hardware may not be fast enough to synthesize shorter vocal tract lengths in real time.  You should choose a longer vocal tract length in such a case, either by using a longer offset or by choosing a larger voice type.\

\fc1\cf1 \

\i vocal tract length offset
\i0 \

\fc0\cf0 Lengthens or shortens the effective total length of the vocal tract.  The length is offset by the specified amount, in a range from ±3 to +3 centimeters.  Each voice type has its own baseline vocal tract length, as follows:\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\li360\fc0\cf0 \

\i Male
\i0 			
\i Female
\i0 		
\i Large Child
\i0 	
\i Small Child
\i0 	
\i Baby
\i0 \
17.5			15.0			12.5			10.0			7.5\
\

\pard\tx2160\tx7920\tx8280\tx9000\tx9720\tx10440\li180\fc0\cf0 If, for example, you have chosen a female voice type and an offset of 0.5, then the vocal tract length will be 15.5 cm.\

\fc1\cf1 \

\i pitch offset
\b\i0 \

\b0\fc0\cf0 Raises or lowers the ªcenter pitchº of the speaking voice.  The pitch is offset by the specified number of semitones, in a range from ±12 (one octave below) to +12 (one octave above).  Each voice type has its own median pitch level, as follows:\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\i\li360\fc0\cf0 \
Male
\i0 			
\i Female
\i0 		
\i Large Child
\i0 	
\i Small Child
\i0 	
\i Baby
\i0 \
±12.0			0.0				2.5				5.0				7.5\
\

\pard\tx2160\tx7920\tx8280\tx9000\tx9720\tx10440\li180\fc0\cf0 where the units are semitones, and 0 represents middle C.  For example, if you have chosen a male voice type and an offset of 2.5, then the ``center pitch'' will be ±9.5.\

\fc1\cf1 \

{\b\fc0\cf0{\NeXTHelpMarker3501 \markername breathiness;}
¬}\pard\tx2160\tx7920\tx8280\tx9000\tx9720\tx10440\f0\b0\i\ulnone\fs24\li180\fc0\cf0 breathiness
\i0  \
Sets the amount of ``breathiness'' or roughness of the speaking voice.  The allowable range is from 0 to 10, where 0 represents no breathiness, and 10 represents maximum breathiness.\

\fc1\cf1 \

\i\fc0\cf0 speed
\b\i0  \

\b0\fc1\cf1 Sets the speaking rate of the voice.  This parameter must be a value
\b  
\b0 within the range 0.2 to 2.0.  The value 1.0 is the normal rate of speech.  The speed is varied by setting the parameter to a factor of this normal rate.  For example, the value 2.0 indicates that the speech will be twice the the normal rate, and the value 0.5 indicates that the speech will be one half the normal rate.\
\

\i intonation type
\b\i0 \

\b0 Sets the type and extent of intonation of the synthesized voice. Micro-intonation is variation in pitch due to segmental level changes in air pressure associated with events such as stops and plosives;  its effect is quite subtle.  Macro-intonation results from supra-segmental features such as syllable stress, phrase structure, sentence type, etc.  Declination is the gradual drop in pitch that naturally occurs in most sentences.  Creaky voice results when the voice drops in pitch to such an extent that a pulse-like quality is heard (currently not implemented).  If the randomize option is set on, slight variations in pitch are added to the macro-intonation.\
 \

\i User Dictionary
\b\i0 \

\b0 Specifies the full path to the PrEditor dictionary that you want used for personalized pronunciations.  Although you may have several PrEditor dictionaries in your account, only one of them may be specified as your User Dictionary.\
\
When you make a change to any of these settings, the test phrase is spoken so that you can hear the effect of the change.  You can enter any test phrase you wish.\

\b \
\
Setting the Defaults using the Command Line\

\b0 Any of the above user defaults can be set at the command line using 
\i dwrite
\i0 , and seen using 
\i dread
\i0  (see the man pages for more details).  The owner of these defaults is "TextToSpeech".  The names of the defaults are:\
\

\pard\tx2160\tx2340\tx8280\tx9000\tx9720\tx10440\li180\fc0\cf0 	·	volume\
	·	balance\
	·	channels\
	·	voiceType\
	·	vtlOffset\
	·	pitchOffset\
	·	breathiness\
	·	speed\
	·	intonation\
	·	userDictPath\

\pard\tx2160\tx7920\tx8280\tx9000\tx9720\tx10440\li180\fc0\cf0 \
Make sure that you set the defaults to allowable values.  These are documented in the TextToSpeech.h header file. 	\

}
